Profile Summary

Leader in Education Research, Analytics, and Organizational
Transformation

Innovative leadership in student-centred education research, managing
large-scale projects with skilled research design, advanced statistical
analysis and effective knowledge mobilization. Adept at translating
complex data into actionable insights to support organizational goals
and strategic plans.

Proven ability to lead organizational transformation through
evidence-based decision-making, professional development, and program
evaluation. Fosters a data-driven culture while efficiently resourcing
initiatives. Committed to centering education community and student
voice.

Professional Vision:

Lead transformative, equitable change in education systems through
evidence-based decision making, cutting edge research and skilled data
analytics, effective strategic planning and capacity building. My goal
is to remove barriers and create conditions where students and staff can
thrive, unconstrained by social location or identity. I strive to model
a spirit of inquiry, growth mindset, and social responsibility in all
aspects of organizational leadership.

Education

University of Waterloo:

-   Ph.D., Psychology, Behavioural and Cognitive Neuroscience

    -   Dissertation: Perceptual and Memory Deficits in Unilateral
        Neglect
    -   Area of Study: Stroke, Perception, and Memory.

-   M.A., Psychology, Behavioural and Cognitive Neuroscience

    -   Thesis: Development of a Measure of Visuomotor Control for
        Assessing the Long-term Effects of Concussion
    -   Area of Study: Fine Motor Control, Concussion Research.

-   B.Sc. (Honours), Psychology, Biology (minor)

    -   Course load including strong mix of Psychology with Natural and
        Life Sciences.

Professional Experience

Data Scientist, Toronto Catholic District School Board to Present

-   Lead the transformation of data analysis and communication
    approaches across the TCDSB, developing innovative solutions to
    support student success through data-driven decision making.
-   Design and maintain complex data pipelines integrating multiple
    platforms including Microsoft SQL databases, Azure, Aspen student
    information system, and Alchemer survey platform to ensure reliable,
    timely data flow for analytics.
-   Develop and maintain PowerBI dashboards and interactive
    visualizations that transform complex educational data into
    accessible, actionable insights for stakeholders across nearly 200
    schools serving 84,000 students.
-   Implement sophisticated data models and statistical analyses using R
    and SQL to support evidence-based decision making and strategic
    planning initiatives.
-   Guide the development and implementation of data governance and
    management strategies to ensure data quality and effective knowledge
    mobilization.
-   Build organizational capacity for data literacy and evidence-based
    practice through professional development and collaborative
    partnerships while fostering an inclusive, innovative team
    environment.
-   Provide technical leadership and supervision to the Senior Research
    Technician, supporting the advancement of analytics infrastructure
    and reproducible research practices.

Research Officer, Waterloo Region District School Board to 2025

-   Spearhead the development and implementation of system-level
    measurements aligned with WRDSB’s Strategic Plan and Board
    Improvement and Equity Plan / Student Achievement Plan, focusing on
    enhancing educational outcomes and operational efficiency through
    evidence-based practices.
-   Maintain a student demographic data tool that leverages Canadian
    Census data and guide senior team on using it to support WRDSB
    equity goals for a more equitable allocation of resources to
    schools.
-   Lead complex research projects from conception to completion,
    addressing the board’s goals and ministry initiatives. For example,
    developed an innovative statistical model to identify at-risk
    students, contributing to a 5% increase in graduation rates over
    three years.
-   Deliver a major, district-wide longitudinal student well-being
    research project involving tens of thousands of students completing
    both a normed, standardized measurement, the Middle Years
    Development Instrument, and locally developed questions. Produce
    analytics and data visualizations using R to automate the creation
    of customized PDF reports for every school.
-   Lead professional development workshops for WRDSB school
    administrators, translating complex research into practical school
    leadership strategies, and guiding the integration of data into
    School Learning and Improvement Plans.
-   Manage several major projects supporting student achievement and
    well-being, including the implementation of the staff well-being
    “Guarding Minds at Work” survey. Oversee all stages from planning
    and data collection to qualitative and quantitative analytics and
    results communication.
-   Collaborate with senior administrators and key stakeholders to
    provide actionable insights, facilitating data-informed
    decision-making to improve program effectiveness and student
    well-being.
-   Demonstrate leadership among peers by cultivating a culture of
    respect, innovation, and accountability, motivating team members and
    fostering an inclusive work environment that recognizes the
    strengths that come from diversity.

Research Associate, Centre for Family Medicine  - 2018

-   Contributed to a multi-disciplinary team of researchers and
    healthcare professionals to develop, evaluate, and disseminate
    innovative primary-care programs, fostering a culture of inquiry and
    creative thinking to improve quality-of-care for persons with
    dementia, frailty, and related geriatric issues.
-   Successfully managed and completed an innovative pilot frailty
    screening measure for the Waterloo Region Local Health Network,
    demonstrating project management skills and ability to meet
    strategic objectives.
-   Initiated and developed a collaboration between a family health
    organization and a community pharmacy to deliver an empathetic
    screening program, showcasing ability to build partnerships and
    implement community-focused initiatives.
-   Conducted field testing of the screening measure with medical
    professionals, utilizing feedback to refine implementation
    strategies and improve program effectiveness.
-   Applied qualitative research methods to evaluate improvements in
    clinician confidence, self-reported competence, and capacity
    following participation in a memory-clinic training program,
    demonstrating skills in program evaluation and professional
    development assessment.
-   Trained and supervised co-op students and volunteer research
    assistants, exhibiting leadership and mentorship capabilities.

Statistical Consultant, Centre for Family Medicine

-   Collected, tracked and made use of identity-based data from clinical
    and administrative databases, outcome data, survey methodologies,
    and clinical measures for statistical analysis to evaluate new and
    existing procedures in primary care.
-   Completed statistical reports with R, including data cleaning and
    validation, as well as visualization.

Graduate and Undergraduate Research Employment, Department of
Psychology, University of Waterloo:

-   Research Assistant; Perception, action and brain injury.  - 2015

    -   Develop a motor-accuracy task for the measurement of concussion
        symptoms.
    -   Test neurological patients using a variety of neuropsychological
        tests and procedures, including Prism Adaptation.
    -   Develop and test a gaze-contingent task using real-time
        eye-tracking equipment.
    -   Supervise undergraduate research assistants

-   Research Assistant; Decision making.

    -   Develop web-based decision making experiments and collect data.

-   Research Assistant; Psychophysics.  - 2006

    -   Develop a computer-based task for a graduate student’s project.

-   Laboratory Coordinator; Attention and clinical depression.  - 2006

    -   Coordinate several covert-orienting experiments.
    -   Supervise volunteer research assistants

-   Research Assistant; Attention and clinical depression. (volunteer)
     - 2005

    -   Conduct experimental psychology research experiments.

Affiliations

-   Ontario Data User Grop  - Present
-   Association of Educational Researchers of Ontario  - Present
-   Danckert Attention and Action Group  - 2015
-   Bad Science Watch (Advisory Council)
-   Vision Sciences Society

Service Activities

Executive Member at Large, AERO-AOCE  - Present

-   Serving as an executive member at large for Association of
    Educational Researchers of Ontario (AERO-AOCE), helping to drive the
    promotion and improvement of research, evaluation, planning, and
    development within Ontario’s school systems.
-   Contributing to initiatives that underscore the importance and
    impact of educational research in enhancing board of education
    strategies and outcomes.

Host/Facilitator, AERO-AOCE Fall Conference

-   Topic: Student Census, focusing on the analysis, reporting and
    community engagement phases of the project.
-   Contributed to organization and conference delivery and introduction
    of speakers.

Host/Facilitator, AERO-AOCE Spring Special Interest Group

-   Topic: Climate Surveys: Student, Staff & Parent.
-   MC role and contributed to organization and program delivery.

WRDSB Accessibility Plan Implementation Committee  - Present

-   Contributing to board-wide planning and implementation of AODA
    requirements.
-   Providing research and data analysis support for accessibility
    planning and monitoring.

Science Advisor, Advisory Committee: Bad Science Watch.

-   Provided support and science advice for the non-profit public
    interest advocacy group.
-   Contributed to white paper for science-based journalism.

President: U.W. Undergraduate Psychology Society.  - 2007

-   Student organization, administration of 8, over 600 members.

Teaching and Training Delivery

Introduction to R for Education Research: Full-Day Workshop

-   Delivered comprehensive training to TCDSB research team, progressing
    from R fundamentals to creating publication-quality visualizations.
-   Developed and provided persistent online documentation supporting
    continued learning and implementation.
-   Facilitated hands-on experimental approach building confidence with
    R, RStudio, and tidyverse packages.

AERO Lunch & Learn: Virtual Workshop

-   Led professional development session introducing R for data analysis
    and reporting practices for education researchers in Ontario school
    boards.
-   Demonstrated innovative approaches to research analysis and
    visualization.
-   Generated follow-up requests for additional in-person workshops from
    participating boards.

School Climate Survey Results: Family of Schools Training Sessions -2024

-   Facilitate annual professional development for WRDSB administrators
    on interpreting and implementing school climate survey data.
-   Guide administrators through analysis of Middle Years Development
    Instrument results and other climate measures.
-   Guide development of data-informed school improvement planning using
    climate survey indicators.

Department of Psychology, University of Waterloo Teaching
Assistantships:

-   Physiological Psychology: T.A. & 2014

    -   Provide weekly office hour extra instruction to students.

-   Human Neuropsychology: T.A.

    -   Provide weekly office hour extra instruction to students.

-   Res. in Human Cognitive Neuroscience: T.A.

    -   Provide assistance and feedback to students developing a
        research paper.

-   Physiological Psychology: T.A.

    -   Provide weekly office hour extra instruction to students.

-   Cognitive Processes: T.A.

    -   Provide extra instruction during office hours, grade term
        papers, give feedback to students.

-   Basic Data Analysis: T.A. & Lab Instructor

    -   Instruct a weekly tutorial for 30 students, consisting of a 30
        minute review lecture of the week’s topic, and 30 minutes of
        practical instruction on solving data analytic problems.
    -   Develop weekly tutorial lesson plans in cooperation with other
        teaching assistants.

-   Advanced Data Analysis: T.A. & Lab Instructor

    -   Develop and lead regular 1 hour tutorials instructing 30
        students to utilize the statistical software package SPSS in
        analyzing real world experimental and observational data.

Professional Development

Leading for Change: Understanding Colonialism, Human Rights and Equity;
WRDSB

-   Course explored the nuanced concepts of colonialism, human rights
    and equity —how they are each unique, different, and how they relate
    to one another, to education and to leadership.
-   Interactive, experiential learning exploring notions of colonialism,
    oppression, and racism and uncovering how these impact all aspects
    of education, while considering personal identity and one’s own role
    in upholding these structures.

WRDSB Microsoft Power BI Hands-On Training; Go Analytics

-   Mastered the full spectrum of Power BI tools, from data connection
    to publishing dynamic dashboards.
-   Learned from Microsoft Certified instructor Klayton Gonçalves,
    leveraging his extensive data analytics expertise.
-   Gained proficiency in Power Query for data transformation and DAX
    for creating calculated columns and measures.
-   Developed skills in building interactive visualizations and
    employing best practices for effective data presentation.

The Scientist Knowledge Translation Training (SKTT™); SickKids

-   Completed intense 2-day workshop focused on effective research
    dissemination across fields like health, education, and social
    sciences.
-   Learned from Dr. Melanie Barwick, an expert in implementation
    science and knowledge translation, on enhancing research impact.
-   Acquired strategies for making complex scientific information
    accessible to non-academic audiences.
-   Developed skills in creating impactful knowledge translation plans
    tailored to diverse user groups.

University of Waterloo, selected examples follow:

-   Multiple Regression (Psychology 632)
-   Analysis of Variance (Psychology 630)
-   Experimental Design (Statistics 830)
-   Data Analysis in Neuroscience (Biology 681)
-   Visual Perception (Psychology 287)
-   Nature & Computational Correlations of Intelligence (Psychology 670)
-   Cognitive Neuropsychology I (Psychology 779A)
-   Human Neuroanatomy and Neuropathology (Psychology 784)

Mathematical Expertise

Basic Statistics and Data Analysis

-   Hypothesis testing via means comparisons and correlations, including
    techniques for the prevention of elevated experiment-wise error.
-   Data reduction and simplification using measures of central
    tendency, variance, and periodicity.
-   Data visualization, including experience with the problem of
    communicating high-dimensional data on paper/screen.
-   Experiment power and effect size calculations.
-   Experimental design optimization.
-   Literate programming and reproducible research practices.
-   Advanced data mining and statistical modeling for educational data.

Advanced Statistics

-   Analysis of Variance and Covariance, as well as Logistic Regression
    (Generalized Linear Models).
-   Multiple Regression, including model comparisons and variable coding
    for non-typical data sets.
-   Bayesian hypothesis testing.
-   Predictive modeling and machine learning applications in education.

Technical Skills

Statistical / Data Analytical Software

-   R, statistics programming, data visualization, and automated report
    generation.
-   Alchemer, survey data management.
-   SPSS, statistical analysis for social sciences.
-   Power BI, Data modelling, dash-boarding and interactive
    visualizations.
-   Python programming language, combined with Jupyter notebooks.
-   Qualtrics, survey creation and data collection.

Database / Data Management Systems

-   Aspen student information system.
-   Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, SQLite databases.
-   Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio, SQL database management and
    scripting.
-   Microsoft Access desktop database software.
-   File based CSV, Parquet, other columnar data storage formats, Native
    data storage formats including Python pickle and R RDS/RData files.
-   Experience optimizing data storage for analysis performance.
-   Experience with data governance and data lake development.

Development and Collaboration Tools

-   Git version control and GitHub/Forgejo for collaborative
    development.
-   Continuous integration for automated workflows.
-   Self-hosted development infrastructure and data storage on Linux and
    OpenBSD.
-   Experience building secure, on-premises data science solutions.

Other Programming and Scripting Languages

-   Day-to-day familiarity with several scripting languages including
    Python, UNIX shell scripting (BASH).
-   Experience using a variety of programming languages (C, Pascal, and
    Java).
-   Experience using PHP with HTML and CSS in the development of
    web-based research experiments.

Publishing

-   Experience with, Quarto, R Notebooks, RMarkdown, Pandoc Markdown,
    and Shiny for interactive applications and dynamic documents.
-   Comfortable writing with LaTeX (this document is produced with
    LaTeX), and BibTeX for technical and scientific documents, as well
    as common office suites such as GSuite, Microsoft Office, and
    LibreOffice.
-   Experience creating automated, reproducible technical documentation.

Publications

Refereed:

-   Lee, L., Locklin, J., Patel, T., Lu, S. K., Hillier, L. M. (2022)
    Recruitment of participants for dementia research: interprofessional
    perspectives from primary care-based memory clinics.
    Neurodegenerative Disease Management. 12 (3), 117-127
    doi:10.2217/nmt-2021-0053

-   Lee, L., Hillier, L., Locklin, J., Lee, J., Slonim, K. (2019)
    Advanced care planning for persons with dementia in primary care:
    Attitudes and barriers among health-care professionals. Journal of
    palliative care, 34 (4), 248-254. doi:10.1177/0825859718812463

-   Lee, L., Hillier, L., Locklin, J., Lumley-Leger, K.,
    Molnar, F. (2019) Specialist and family physician collaboration:
    Insights from primary care-based memory clinics. Health & Social
    Care in the Community. 27 (4), e522-e533. doi:10.1111/hsc.12751

-   Lee, L., Patel, T., Locklin, J., Milligan., J., Pefanis, J., Costa,
    A., Lee, J., Slonim, K., Giangregorio, L., Hunter, S., Keller, H.,
    Boscart, V. (2018). Frailty screening and case-finding for complex
    chronic conditions in older adults in primary care. Geriatrics, 3
    (3), 39. doi:10.3390/geriatrics3030039

-   Locklin, J. (2015). Perceptual and Memory Deficits in Unilateral
    Neglect. (Dissertation, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Canada).
    Retrieve from hdl.handle.net/10012/9590

-   Locklin, J., Bunn, L., Roy, E. & Danckert, J. (2010). Measuring
    Deficits in Visually Guided Action Post-Concussion. Sports Medicine,
    40, 183-187.
    doi:10.2165/11319440-000000000-00000

-   Locklin, J. (2009). Development of a measure of visuomotor control
    for assessing the long-term effects of concussion. (Master’s thesis,
    University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Canada).
    Retrieve from hdl.handle.net/10012/4740

-   Striemer, C., Locklin, J., Blangero, A., Rossetti, Y., Pisella, L. &
    Danckert, J. (2008). Attention for action? Examining the link
    between attention and visuomotor control deficits in a patient with
    optic ataxia. Neuropsychologia, 47, 1491-1499.
    doi:10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2008.12.021

Non-Refereed:

-   Locklin, J. (2024) R training workship notes. Retrieve from
    rpubs.com/jasonL/module1,
    rpubs.com/jasonL/module2, and rpubs.com/jasonL/module3

-   Locklin, J. (2024). AERO Lunch and Learn notes. Retrieve from
    Rpubs.com/jasonL/LandL

-   2022-2023 Safe, Caring and Inclusive School Survey – Summary Report
    (2024). Public report produced by the Waterloo Region District
    School Board. Retrieve from
    wrdsb.ca/about-the-wrdsb/research/reports/scis/2022-2023-safe-caring-and-inclusive-school-survey-summary-report/

-   Newman, G., Duffy, C., Powell, A., Gray, R., & Locklin, J. (2012).
    Position Paper on Electromagnetic Hypersensitivity (Idiopathic
    Environmental Intolerance Attributed to Electromagnetic Fields).
    Canada: Bad Science Watch.
    Retrieve from
    www.badsciencewatch.ca/projects/investigation-of-anti-wifi-activism-in-canada

-   Locklin, J., & Danckert, J. (2010). Do we have Independent Visual
    Streams for Perception and Action? a Response. Preprint.
    Retrieve from cogprints.org/6854/

-   Locklin, J., Danckert, J. (2009). Changes in Visuomotor Performance
    of Concussed Individuals. Poster. Abstract published in Journal of
    Vision, 9:8, 1103-1103.
    doi:10.1167/9.8.1103

-   Law, A., McCabe, S., Locklin, J., Tan, C., & Morris, S. (2006).
    Perceptions of social rank as a predictor of anger and depression
    symptoms. Poster presented at the Graduate Student Research
    Conference, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Canada.

References

Erin A. Maloney, Ph.D

-   Associate Professor / professeur agrégé School of Psychology/École
    de psychologie
-   Canada Research Chair (Tier II)/ chaire de recherche du Canada
-   University of Ottawa/Université d’Ottawa 6022 Vanier Hall, 136 Jean
    Jacques Lussier Ottawa, Ontario, Canada K1N 6N5
-    (613)562-5800, x.4116
-   

Dana Liebermann, Ph.D

-   Previous: Executive Manager, Research and Organizational
    Transformation, WRDSB.
-   Current: Vice President of Research, Strategy and Impact Measurement
    at the YMCA of Hamilton, Burlington & Brantford
-    (519)504-0125
-   
